# Intrusion Detection
With the increasing amount of cybersecurity incidents worldwide, there is much interest in applying data mining to computer network intrusion detection. An intrusion can be defined as "any set of actions that attempt to compromise the integrity, confidentiality or availability of a resource"i. A network intrusion attack can compromise the stability or the security of the information stored in those computers connected to it. Considering that in today’s world, companies depend on their physical networks and on their level of connectivity to survive, it comes as no surprise that the role of network intrusion detection has grown so rapidly. While there may still be different approaches as to what is the best way to protect a company’s network, it is evident that an intrusion detection system is certainly an important asset among the group of tools used to secure the network architecture. Added security measures have failed in many cases to stop the wide variety of possible attacks. 
The goal of intrusion detection is to build a system that would automatically scan network activity and detect such intrusion attacks, providing the necessary information to the system administrator to allow for corrective actionii.  A strong case can be made for the use of data mining techniques to improve the current state of intrusion detection. Stolfo and Leeiii describe several approaches to data mining which are particularly useful in this domain, including classification, association and sequence analysis.
Classification seems especially suitable is a training set is of audit data is available. An ideal application in intrusion detection will be to train a classifier by using sufficient "normal" and "abnormal" audit data, then apply the classifier to determine (future) audit data as belonging to the normal class or the abnormal class. In this research project I have applied classification methods for network intrusion detection.  
The datasets on which these techniques must be applied were extracted from data files used for The Third International Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Tools Competition, which was held in conjunction with KDD-991 (The Fifth International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining).  The competition task was to build a network intrusion detector, a predictive model capable of distinguishing between “bad” connections, called intrusions or attacks, and “good” normal connections. The database used for the competition contains a standard set of data to be audited, which includes a wide variety of intrusions simulated in a military network environment. In this project I have replicated the experiment on a reduced sample dataset (close to 100000 records), using the classifiers KNN, decision trees, and tree augmented Naïve Bayes  

Data sets:  
The original competition was based on data extracted from research developed by Salvatore J. Stolfo, Wei Fan, Wenke Lee, Andreas Prodromidis, and Philip K. Chan in their 1999 paper (Cost-based Modeling and Evaluation for Data Mining with Application to Fraud and Intrusion Detection: Results from the JAM Project). To simplify matters, I have chosen a reduced subset of the data and slightly reformulated the problem, making it into a binary classification problem. 
